### Difference services(server) running in Data center
**DNS(Domain Name System) server**
- It convert Domain name into IP address and also reverse.
- It is manage by the serives provider or maybe the local organiazation.

**DHCP(Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol)**
- It is used when we connect any device to the network.
- In the large company they has multiple DHCP servers if one server is unavailble it will connect to the other server.

**File sharing**
- It will provide a way to centrally store information to access the file by everyone.
- To share the file to the peoples wthin the organication or outside of the organization.
  - we can use the standard type of file service.
    - [ ] SMB (Server Message Block) used in Windows.
    - [ ] AFP (Apple Filing Protocol) used in Mac OS.
    - There are many other different standards for sharing the file it depands on the app and the OS which is used.
    - Usaly the operating system tends to hide those protocols.
    - So use will see the File management front end options like drag, drop, rename, modify, etc.. in the folder.

**Printer Service**
- It is used to connect the printer to the system the print the information on the paper.
- Sometimes it will use the separate computer which will also run the print service application or it may be build into the printer itself, It may be a network card it will provide interface to the network and the print serivcwe software.
- It will provide the different protocols in the network like
  - [ ] SMB (Server Message Block)
  - [ ] IPP (Internet Printing Portocol)
  - [ ] LPD (Line Printer Daemon)

**Email Servers**
- It is used to send & receive emails
- Which is used to manage in cloud serives.

**Syslog**
- It is used to collect the log files of all the devices like switches, routers, servers, firewalls ,ect... in one central database.
- which is used to do in the protocol that is syslog.
- And it uses the central server called SIEM (Security Information and Event Manager).

**Web server**
- It is used for the hosting the website, which is use the HTTP or HTTPS in the browser

**Authentication Server**
- It is also called as AAA(Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting) server.
- It is used to privide access to the user by checking the user and password.
- It use the centralized database.

**Database server**
- In the data base the informations is stored in a form of information table like a very large spreadsheet.
- It will link with the related data in the table, so we can find the paritcular data in the database.
- It will use the language called SQL (sturctured Qurey Language).
  - Popular database servers
    - Microsoft SQL server.
    - MySQL and others...

**NTP(Network Time Protocol)**
- It is used to get the time and date accuratly.
- Time is a important thing in the networks like which is used in the encryption tech.

**Spam gateway**
- Which is used to check every email messages which is legitimate are spam, If it is a spam email it will categorizes in to spam folder.


**All in one security appliance**
- This is also called as next genration firwall, UTM(Unified Threat Management System), web security gateway.
- This devise have any other functions which is all combined into one single device.
  - The different functions which might have in the device.
    - [ ] URL filtering or content inspection.
    - [ ] Looking for malware either in the email messages or the real time network traffic.
    - [ ] Spam filter built into it.
    - [ ] CSU/DSU.
    - [ ] Router and Switch interfaces.
    - [ ] Firewall functionality.
    - [ ] IPS functionality.
    - [ ] VPN functionlitys.
    - [ ] End users functionlitys.

**Load Balancer**
- Which is connected to the web server to distributed evenly the requests to across all of those servers.

**Proxy server**
- For either inbound or outbound communication.
- It is the security tool and it will also scan the contents
- It will receive the request form the client and looks that it is secure and it will send to the end user.

**SCADA(Supervisory Control and Data Acquisiton Syatem) or ICS(Industrial Control System)**
- It is used in the companys which provide Power service like Oil, Gas industry or a manufacturing company
- It is used to controlling the large scale equipment.
- It is used to Viem, Manage, Control and Maintain these system remotely.
- It will use the complete sepmented network to be secure.

**Legacy systems**
- which means the system which is very old like 10, 20, even longer.

**Embedded system**
- It is the system which is Purpose build device.

**IoT Devices**
- It is the devices which is used in the organcation.

- [ ] END
