### What is Cellular Networks?
These operate by having antennas that separate areas of the land into what we are calling cells.

These cellular network provides both voice and data communication.

- [ ] **3G Technology**
  - It allows us to have GPS functionality.

- [ ] **4G Technology**
  - It refers as LTE (Long term evolution)
  - Based on a technology called GSM (Global system for mobile communications.
  - It may hear this reffered to as EDGE or the enhanced data rates for GSM evolution.
  - It has a bandwidths up to 150 megabits per sec.

  - Then we are able to upgrade LTE to LTE Advanced or LTEA.
    - It has a bandwidths up to 300 megabits per sec.

- [ ] **5G Technology**
  - It has a bandwidths up to 10 gigabits per sec.
  - If the user is running on the 5g network they will get 100 to 900 megabits per sec in total.

---

### 1. Wifi Technology (802.11)
- It is use home and in our offices.
- It is the ways to connect with the local access point.
- It enables to use voice, video, data and almost anyother type of data transfer.

### 2. Hotspot
- To turn our moblie into an internet router.

### 3. SIM (Subscriber identify module)
- It contains SIM ID and a phone number.
- It store contacts and messages on the SIM.

### 4. eSIM (embedded SIM)
- It is the eletronic version of physical SIM.

### 5. Bluetooth
- It is used to connect with the external devices.

### 6. GPS (Global positioning system)
- It is created by US department of defense.
- It use the satellites to get accurate GPS readings use in Maps.
- It works by receiving signal form satellites to determine the longitude, latitude and the atitude about sea level.

- [ ] **END**
