### 1. About Batteries in Laptop.
**In the laptops we can see 2 types of batteries build.**

- [ ] **Removeable batteries.**
- Which are very easy to remove by the users.
- To change the battery there is a button that you can press that will pop out the battery.

- [ ] **Build in batteries.**
- These type of batteries cant be removed by users.
- To change the battery can have to reach to a technician.

**And the typers of batteries used in most laptop in general.**
- [ ] **Lithium ion batteries.**
- [ ] **Lithium ion polymer batteries.**
- Both batteries dont have the traditional memory effect that we have with older battery tech.
- In this we can recharge the battery any time and no worry that affecting the overall capacity of that particular battery.

---

### 2. About Keyboard in Laptop.
**Some of the problems which can be faced by the keyboard.**

- [ ] **In any particular keys in the keyboard.**
- To find a Problem (key) : We have to reconnect with a new keyboard.
- To find a Fix the Problem (key) : We have to replace a single key.
  - To do that we have to remove the keycap and replace this a new one handle with special care dont damage th keys while replacing the keys.
  - Replace the keycap based on the manufacturers instructions.

---

### 3. About Memory Module in Laptop.
**SO-DIMM modules are used my laptops.**
- Its easy to remove and replace the modules, But if the laptop provides soldered modual to the laptop then we have no way  we have to replace the entire motherboard.
- To upgrad the memory on the laptops, Just we want to open the back of the laptop and add the new memory into the slots.

**There are 2 main storage hardwares.**
- [ ] **HDD (Hard DIsk Drive)**
- These are used in old laptops and desktops.

- [ ] **SSD (Solid State Drive)**
- Now a days laptops are using these drive like M.2 interface.

**There are some of the options to to transfor data form one drive to othere drive.**
- Must mound the Both drives one that have data and one which want to transfer data.

---

### 4. About Wireless connections and bluetooth in Laptops.

**Now a days laptops usually have wireless connections.**

- [ ] **802.11 (Wifi)**
- Its a local area metwork wireless connection.

- [ ] **Bluetooth**
- Its a short range network communication.

**Usually laptops are bulid this in the motherboard.**

**But older laptops and PC use interface cards.**

---

### 5. About Biometrics in Laptops.
**There are some of the Hardwares used for Biometrics to unlock.**

- [ ] **Camera (Webcam)**
- For Face Recognition using face ID.

- [ ] **Finger Print Reader**
- For Fingerprint recognition.

---

### 6. About NFC in phone / smartwatch

**NFC means Near Field Communication.**
- It is used to make a payment or it can be used as a access care.

---

- [ ] **DONE WITH 1.1 IN Core1**
